Security Knowledgebase
 
Port Scanning
 
Port Scanning is a method for determining which ports on a network are open. 
Ports on a computer are the place where information is sent and received, and through 
scanning these ports, crucial information - such as which ports are open and 
listening (receiving information), as well as the presence of security 
devices(firewalls) - is revealed.
 
SecureComp allows you to detect whether your system is being port scanned, as 
well as the type of port scanning, where the scanning is coming 
from (Source IP) as well as how many times the ports were scanned. 
While it is impossible to prevent the act of port scanning; being aware of 
it happening can warn the user of a possible network threat. Disconnecting 
from the network can prevent a port scan, and another possible solution is 
to use a small linux device (e.g. a raspberry pi) between your PC and the 
internet. But a recommended method is to simply block all unnecessary ports
on your system. More information can be found here: 
https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/using-iptables-block-specific-ports

Denial-of-Service 

A Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack is an attack meant to shut down a machine or 
network, making it inaccessible to its intended users. DoS attacks accomplish this 
by flooding the target with traffic, or sending it information that triggers a crash.

SecureComp allows you to detect whether your system is under a DoS/DDoS attack, and will
alert you to it. While it is difficult to prevent a DoS attack, a possible solution to the 
problem is 'throttling', where the user can limit the network traffic coming in and thus 
be in no risk of being overwhelmed with network traffic. More information on this can be 
found here: http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/tc.8.html


Unverified Connections

An unverified connection is one where the user is not the one to initiate a connection. 
This means that the user is being sent information from a source they have not communicated
with beforehand, and while this can be harmless (ex. Google using a different server to send
information to your browser compared to the original server the user sent a request to), sometimes
it could be that a malicious actor is in your network

It is always a good idea to cross-reference the sources of unverified connections


Updating packages

Many of the more harmful malware attacks we see take advantage of software vulnerabilities in common 
applications, like operating systems and browsers. Updates are one of the most essential steps to take
in order to protecting your information. Software can fix bugs, prevent compatibility issues and most importantly
prevent security breaches. 
